Adding distribution metrics FAQ (#9417)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/faq/updating-to-distribution-metrics-faq.md

---

> title: Updating to Distribution Metrics FAQ

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Update to Distribution Metrics Workflow FAQ
```

kind: faq
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/logs/faq/how-to-send-logs-to-datadog-via-external-log-shippers/"
  tag: "FAQ"
  text: "How to Send Logs to Datadog via External Log Shippers?"
---

## Why has my Distribution Metrics page been deprecated?

> Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics - this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics --- this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.
```

## How does this new pipeline for Distributions affect me? 

> **Unlocks new query functionalities:**```

Author: ```suggestion
- **Unlocks new query functionalities:**
```

>   - Accurate percentiles in time for any historical timeframe (i.e., the past day, week, month).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Accurate percentiles in time for any historical timeframe (such as the past day, week, or month).
```

  - Boolean filtered queries are now available with distribution metrics with percentiles, so that you can write queries like: `p99:request_latency_distribution{app:A OR app:B} by {app}`.
- **Easier tag configuration and percentile aggregation workflows**:

>   - All tag configuration / percentile aggregations will be managed in one centralized location on the [Metrics Summary][1] page

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - All tag configuration-percentile aggregations are managed in one centralized location on the [Metrics Summary][1] page
```

>   - All tag configuration-percentile aggregations are managed in one centralized location on the [Metrics Summary][1] page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - All tag configuration-percentile aggregations are managed in one centralized location on the [Metrics Summary][1] page.
```

>   - Use the the “Manage Tags” button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage all tag configurations for your distribution metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Use the “Manage Tags” button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage the queryable tags configuration for a distribution metric.
```

>   - To add percentile aggregations to your distribution, navigate to the new percentiles section on the side panel, click *Edit* and select “Include percentile aggregations” for the same queryable tags defined as your baseline distribution. You’ll no longer need to specify an additional configuration rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To add percentile aggregations to your distribution, navigate to the new percentiles section on the side panel, click *Edit* and select “Include” for percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined on your baseline distribution. You’ll no longer need to specify an additional configuration rule.
```

> - More Intuitive number of Custom Metrics from Distributions with Percentiles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **More usable number of custom metrics from distributions with percentiles**:
```

> - **More usable number of custom metrics from distributions with percentiles**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **More intuitive number of custom metrics from distributions with percentiles**:
```

  The number of custom metrics emitted from additional percentile aggregations is no longer 5 percentile timeseries for every potentially queryable tag value combination. The new number of custom metrics emitted from distributions with percentiles is now counted more similarly to our other metric types:

  | Metric Type                               | Query Type                                                                                                     | # of custom metrics emitted               |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|

> | Distribution                              | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, and `avg`.                                                          | 5 * (tag value combinations emitted in your data)  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Distribution                              | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, and `avg`.                                                          | 5 for each tag-value combination emitted in your data  |
```

> | Distribution                              | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, and `avg`.                                                          | 5 for each tag-value combination emitted in your data  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Distribution                              | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, and `avg`.                                                          | 5 for each tag value combination emitted in your data  |
```

> | Distribution with Percentile Aggregations | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, p50,  p75,  p90, p95, and p99. | 10 * (tag value combinations emitted in your data) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Distribution with percentile aggregations | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, `p50`,  `p75`,  `p90`, `p95`, and `p99`. | 10 for each tag-value combination emitted in your data |
```

> | Distribution with percentile aggregations | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, `p50`,  `p75`,  `p90`, `p95`, and `p99`. | 10 for each tag-value combination emitted in your data |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Distribution with percentile aggregations | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, `p50`,  `p75`,  `p90`, `p95`, and `p99`. | 10 for each tag value combination emitted in your data |
```

## How can I configure tags on my Distribution metric? 

{{< img src="metrics/faq/sketch-db-migration-faq/configure-tags.png" alt="Configure tags">}}

> Clicking the *Manage Tags* button allows you to configure which tags are queryable on a particular metric. You’ll be able to preview the new number of indexed custom metrics from your tag configuration before saving it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the **Manage Tags** button to configure which tags are queryable on a particular metric. You can preview the new number of indexed custom metrics from your tag configuration before saving it.
```

{{< img src="metrics/faq/sketch-db-migration-faq/manage-tags.png" alt="Manage tags">}}

## How can I add percentiles to my Distribution metric? 

> Click *Edit* and “Include” to include percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined as your baseline distribution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Edit** and select **Include** to include percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined as your baseline distribution.
```

> Click **Edit** and select **Include** to include percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined as your baseline distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Edit** and select **Include** to include percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined on your baseline distribution.
```

{{< img src="metrics/faq/sketch-db-migration-faq/add-percentiles.gif" alt="Add percentiles to a distribution metric">}}

## How can I add percentiles to multiple Distribution metrics?

> Click the *Calculate Percentiles* button on the Metrics Summary page and use * for wildcarding metric names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Calculate Percentiles** on the Metrics Summary page and use `*` for wildcarding metric names.
```

---
title: Updating to Distribution Metrics FAQ
kind: faq
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/logs/faq/how-to-send-logs-to-datadog-via-external-log-shippers/"
  tag: "FAQ"
  text: "How to Send Logs to Datadog via External Log Shippers?"
---

## Why has my Distribution Metrics page been deprecated?

> Datadog has a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics - this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

Reviewer: Datadog has released a new pipeline for calculating globally accurate percentiles for your distribution metrics - this unlocks more query functionality and an easier configuration workflow for distributions.

## How does this new pipeline for Distributions affect me? 

> - Unlocks new query functionalities:

Reviewer: **Unlocks new query functionalities:**

>   - Accurate percentiles in time for any historical timeframe (i.e., the past day, week, month) of their choosing.

Reviewer: - Accurate percentiles in time for any historical timeframe (i.e., the past day, week, month)

  - Boolean filtered queries are now available with distribution metrics with percentiles, so that you can write queries like: `p99:request_latency_distribution{app:A OR app:B} by {app}`.

> - Easier tag configuration and percentile aggregation workflows:

Reviewer: - **Easier tag configuration and percentile aggregation workflows:**

>   - The Metrics Summaray page now centrally manages all tag configuration and percentile aggregations.

Reviewer: - All tag configuration / percentile aggregations will be managed in one centralized location on the [Metrics Summary](https://app.datadoghq.com/metric/summary) page

  - Use the the “Manage Tags” button on the Metrics Summary details side panel to manage all tag configurations for your distribution metrics.
  - To add percentile aggregations to your distribution, navigate to the new percentiles section on the side panel, click *Edit* and select “Include percentile aggregations” for the same queryable tags defined as your baseline distribution. You’ll no longer need to specify an additional configuration rule.
- More Intuitive number of Custom Metrics from Distributions with Percentiles:
  The number of custom metrics emitted from additional percentile aggregations is no longer 5 percentile timeseries for every potentially queryable tag value combination. The new number of custom metrics emitted from distributions with percentiles is now counted more similarly to our other metric types:

>   | Metric Type                               | Query Type                                                                                                     | # of billable custom metrics emitted               |

Reviewer: | Metric Type                               | Query Type                                                                                                     | # of custom metrics emitted               |

|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Distribution                              | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`, and `avg`.                                                          | 5 * (tag value combinations emitted in your data)  |

> | Distribution with Percentile Aggregations | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`,`avg` + p50, `avg` + p75, `avg` + p90, `avg` + p95, and `avg` + p99. | 10 * (tag value combinations emitted in your data) |

Reviewer: | Distribution with Percentile Aggregations | Queryable by `count`, `sum`, `min`, `max`,`avg`, `p50`, `p75`, `p90`, `p95`, and `p99`. | 10 * (tag value combinations emitted in your data) |

## How can I configure tags on my Distribution metric? 

{{< img src="metrics/faq/sketch-db-migration-faq/configure-tags.png" alt="Configure tags">}}

Clicking the *Manage Tags* button allows you to configure which tags are queryable on a particular metric. You’ll be able to preview the new number of indexed custom metrics from your tag configuration before saving it.

{{< img src="metrics/faq/sketch-db-migration-faq/manage-tags.png" alt="Manage tags">}}

## How can I add percentiles to my Distribution metric? 

> Click *edit* and “Include percentile aggregations” on the same queryable tags defined as your baseline distribution.

Reviewer: Click *Edit* and “Include” to include percentile aggregations on the same queryable tags defined as your baseline distribution.

{{< img src="metrics/faq/sketch-db-migration-faq/add-percentiles.gif" alt="Add percentiles to a distribution metric">}}

## How can I add percentiles to multiple Distribution metrics?

> Click the *Calculate Percentiles* button on the Metrics Summary page and use * for wildcard metric name(s).

Reviewer: Click the *Calculate Percentiles* button on the Metrics Summary page and use * for wildcarding metric names.

{{< img src="metrics/faq/sketch-db-migration-faq/bulk-percentiles.gif" alt="Add percentiles to multiple distribution metrics">}}

> 

Author: ```suggestion
[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/metric/summary
```
